In this lecture we are going to install Jenkins, but before doing so I'm going to open up my resources
folder.
I'm going to right click select new and creates a new folder for which I'm going to call Jenkins.
And this is where I'm going to place the Jenkins file.
I'm then going to open up a browser and I'm going to simply search for Jenkins download.
You should see a link to Jenkins download and deployment.
And it should take you to the full page.
So the download that I'm interested in is this one here, which is ELTs and LTA stands for long term
support.
So we're going to use a lot more file approach, which is probably one of the easiest ways to install
Jenkins.
As you can see, there are various ways that we can also install Jenkins using installers such as one
for Windows or one for Mac OS.
So I'm going to click this Stop War link and it should start the download of that file.
So I'm going to pause this video until that completes.
So now that he has finished downloading, I'm going to right click on Select Shown Folder and you'll
see a Jenkins wall file and I'm going to simply control C to copy that.
And I'm going to place it in my Jenkins folder in my resources directory.
So I now have the Jenkins wall file.
So the next step is to open up.
Come online.
And what I need to do is I need to change directory to this Jenkins directory here where the wall file
is residing.
So I'm going to copy that path.
And in command prompt.
I'm going to see D which means change directory to that path.
So now I can run the command to install Jenkins and I can do this by write in Java.
Hyphen jaw.
Jenkins the war.
So this command will trigger the war file.
To execute.
But there's also a additional command you can run if you come across a port issue.
So we're run in Jenkins using a local host.
So that means that we're running a server from our local machine as opposed to running it on an independent
server elsewhere.
So if you find Port 88 is already in use.
You may need to write an additional command to use an alternative port.
And you can do that by write in the following command.
So java hyphen geor jenkins dot wor two hyphens htp port equals and in the port number that you want
to use.
So I'm going to be using the default ports, which is Port 88.
So on command prompt, I'm simply going to press enter.
And then we should see the installation of Jenkins executing in our command prompt window.
So you can see here that we're provided with an admin password.
So we're going to need to use this in a moment.
But you can also find that the password can be found in the following directory.
So just wait a few more seconds for it complete and we should see a message saying Jenkins is up and
running.
So here we can see Jenkins is fully up and running.
So that means that the installation has been successful.
So if I open up another tab on my browser and go to local host.
With a colon and in the port number and press enter.
It should take you to the Jenkins admin panel.
So on first set up, we need to provide that password.
So if I go back to command prompt, I'm simply going to copy this.
You control C on my keyboard and place that password and then click continue.
Jenkins wouldn't ask you to even select the suggested plugins or to select your own plug ins.
So I'm going to keep things simple and just select the suggested plug ins.
And this will start downloading some plug ins into Jenkins for us.
So I'm going to pause the video here until these have been installed.
Now that the plugins have finished downloading, we then taken to the following page where we need to
create a first admin user.
So I'm just going to write admin.
I'm going to provide a password and confirm that password.
A full name.
Some just can use tester and an email address of test at test dot com.
I'm then going to select, save and continue.
So you can see that the installation configuration your role has been provided, which is local, hosted
AT&T.
So this is the address that we need to use in order to access Jenkins.
So I'm going to click Save and Finish and it says that Jenkins is now ready.
If I select start using Jenkins, it will then take me to the Jenkins dashboard.
So this is Jenkins and we have now completed the initial installation.
And in the next lecture we're going to begin configuring Jenkins for our use.
Thank you for watching.